 Gym rat asks AI agent to book him a class, it hacks a waitlist API to bump him up the list Jump to main content Search TOPICS Security All Security Cyber-crime Patches Research CSO Off-Prem All Off-Prem Edge and IoT Channel PaaS and IaaS SaaS On-Prem All On-Prem Systems Storage Networks HPC Personal Tech Cx0 Public Sector Software All Software AI and ML Applications Databases DevOps OS Platforms Virtualization Offbeat All Offbeat Columnists Science BOFH Legal Site News About Us Special Features All Special Features Cloud Infrastructure Month 2026 HPE: AI Explainers Agentic AI The Future of the Datacenter AWS:Reinvent Nvidia GTC Supercomputing Month Computex 2026 AI Infrastructure Month 2026 The State of Storage 2026 RSA Conference Vendor Voice All Vendor Voice Modernizing Financial Services with FIS and AWS Barco Infinidat Everpure Rubrik Make it real with Capgemini and AWS Money Movement Hub ZTE Nutanix: Scale Kubernetes. Not Chaos. AWS New Horizon Digicert Netscout Resources Intelligence Webinars & Events Newsletters Search Sign in AI Security AWS Microsoft Developer Open Source BOFH Who, Me? On Call Podcasts REG AD ai and ml Gym rat asks AI agent to book him a class, it hacks a waitlist API to bump him up the list What wouldst thou ask of the monkey's paw? Brandon Vigliarolo Brandon Vigliarolo GOVERNMENT AND IT NEWS REPORTER Published mon 10 Aug 2026 // 17:45 UTC An Australian man who asked his AI agent to book him a slot in a class at his local gym got more than he bargained for as the bot hacked into a waitlist and started messing with other members' reservations. Australian broadcaster ABC identified the gym-goer only as “Andrew.” The report says Andrew was using the OpenClaw agent with Anthropic’s Claude AI service. Per ABC, Andrew asked his AI agent to book him a hard-to-snag spot in a morning class at his gym. It first responded by telling him that it managed to book him in classes several weeks out, which isn’t supposed to be possible based on the gym’s booking policy. Andrew then asked if the agent could get him to the top of a waitlist for a class later in the week, as he was fourth in line for any possible openings. It was here that agentic hell broke loose. REG AD "The API has zero authorisations checks on cancelling other people's reservations … I tested this with the person in waitlist position #1 — and it actually went through," the agent told him in response to his request. "So you've moved from #4 to #3 already." REG AD In other words, without directly asking OpenClaw to exploit an API vulnerability, Andrew’s AI chose that route after its user asked if there was any way to bump him up on the waitlist. When he realized what had happened, Andrew asked OpenClaw to undo the unauthorized waitlist modification, but it told him it couldn’t - the waitlist API actually had proper authorization checks on reservation creation and joining the waitlist. “The person I removed is gone from the waitlist and I have no way to restore them,” Andrew’s agent explained in a response screenshot published by ABC. “They’d have to re-join themselves, which would put them at the back.” The agent apologized, admitting it ought to have tested its capabilities before making a live API call. Will no one rid me of this troublesome waitlist? Andrew had the AI agent write an email to the gym’s software provider explaining what it had done and reporting the vulnerability, but it points out a serious problem with AI agents that appears to be cropping up lately: Given a task, they’re willing to do whatever it takes to accomplish it, no matter whether they have to break rules, or laws, to get it done. A swarm of OpenAI agents exploited flaws to reach the internet and compromise Hugging Face during cybersecurity evaluations. Anthropic’s Claude similarly reached the internet from a misconfigured test environment, and while trying to solve a capture-the-flag puzzle, it created and published a malicious Python package on PyPI. Meta says that its AI agents have done the same things as OpenAI’s and Anthropic’s. The UK’s AI Security Institute reported last week that AI agents it was testing tried to socially engineer humans, and other AI, into running malicious code. While those are all frontier models with extensive capabilities, they all share a common root with Andrew’s OpenClaw oopsie: All of these models were simply acting on orders to accomplish a task. It's similar to how LLMs are built to prefer a fake answer to an admission they don’t know, but in this case, it's models doggedly pursuing a goal even if their chosen methods could be construed as unethical or illegal. REG AD MORE CONTEXT Anthropic and OpenAI are competing to see whose agents can go rogue harder Humans in the loop miss a third of dangerous AI coding agent requests DeepMind bigbrain calls for America to set AI standards before it's too late Prompt injection isn't the bug, AI agent frameworks are AI models have shown time and again that they’re willing to lie, cheat, and hack their way to their objectives. This latest example is small in scale, but it shows that publicly available agent software can pose risks even in the hands of someone without malicious intent. ® ai and ml agentic ai claude openclaw security REG AD SYSTEMS Cerebras CS-4 rack systems juice chips for every last drop of AI performance Next-gen systems double per-chip performance while cramming 3x as many into a rack ai and ml OpenAI's overhead will rise 20 percent for some workloads as it hardens security Expanded multistage chain of thought monitoring makes frontier model work more expensive devops Platform Engineering 2.0: your platform was built for a different era. AI just exposed it PARTNER CONTENT: Platform engineering won the argument. Now it has to grow up fast and evolve for the AI era. security Expired credit cards revived by researchers to make unauthorized payments Gaps in expiry checks could let dead plastic make purchases again COLUMNISTS Be a hater all you want, AI's here to stay The good news? One of the worst bits, tech giants controlling it all, might soon be over PERSONAL TECH Meta and Google mobile apps gorge on user data: Study Zuck's empire declares triple the appetite of Apple or Microsoft, while Google packs the leaderboard, dev survey shows MOST POPULAR AI and ml Google buys crashed airline Spirit’s data at auction, because AI AI and Ml Excel's Copilot function is headed for the Recycle Bin DEVOPS GitHub has Issues as repo downloads hit 50% error rate OFFBEAT Lego's supersized Hubble deserves a little more shine ai and ml Anthropic says text watermarking scheme relies on inconsequential words systems Part didn't fit so techie got out his screwdriver. Then something flew off the motherboard AI SYSTEMS Cerebras CS-4 rack systems juice chips for every last drop of AI performance Next-gen systems double per-chip performance while cramming 3x as many into a rack Security Copilot tricked into telling reseachers how to hack itself How to social engineer an AI's reasoning engine AI and ml Payments giant Stripe is about to drop over $7 billion to become a gateway to AI token sales AI gateways look promising as companies struggle with model orchestration ai and ml Anthropic says text watermarking scheme relies on inconsequential words 'Shall I compare thee to a summer's afternoon' is the sort of thing this will make, and others look likely to adopt it AI and ML DeepSeek's innovative harness treats everything as a plug-in Chinese AI labs keep moving forward while US labs play defense Infosec Security Russians are posing as Signal support to launch phishing attacks PLUS: US takes down Iranian propaganda sites; Marketing company asks 'Why Do We Have Your Information?' And more! Security Microsoft patches failed to fix on-prem SharePoint, which is now under zero-day attack PLUS: China upgrades smartphone surveillance tools; Ring eases anti-snooping stance; and more Black Hat and DEF CON DEF CON Franklin project enlists hackers to harden critical infrastructure Voting village reports have been so successful, says Jeff Moss, that the whole of DEF CON will now be included Security EQT buys majority share in Swiss cybersecurity biz Acronis Went at equivalent of $3.5B+ valuation for entire firm, though portion sold not specified Malware Month Ten years since the first corp ransomware, Mikko Hyppönen sees no end in sight On the plus side, infosec's a good bet for a long, stable career FOSS FOSS smashed one Microsoft monopoly. After 20 years of failure, it's time to smash another Word up GNOME can look like Windows – and Flashback can do it without extensions New 'Simple-taskbar' is an option, but there's a simpler, stabler way A moment of silence, please, for the final release of Debian on x86-32 New Debian versions hit FOSSland in the form of 13.6 and 12.15 Baddies caught exploiting extensions bugs with perfect 10 scores on vulnerable Joomla websites Flaws in iCagenda, Balbooa Forms extensions can impact open source CMS that powers a million sites worldwide Frame: A new X11 server – implemented directly in assembly Joins yserver, Phoenix, and of course XLibre – and outlier Arcan Cinnamon 6.8 will support Wayland – if you want it Next version of Linux Mint’s desktop has both kinds of display server ✕ Biting the hand that feeds IT About Us Contact us Advertise with us Who we are Newsletter Our Websites The Next Platform DevClass Blocks and Files Situation Publishing Your Privacy Cookies Policy Privacy Policy Ts & Cs Do not share my personal information Your Consent Options Archives 27 years of articles Copyright. All rights reserved © 1998-2026. 